We're talking to Howard Norman.
I love documents and novels, but they're also the hardest, because books, as you know, speak for themselves.
And that was a great piece that The Globe did on your last year, though.
Yeah, she came up to the house.
There was a long one in the Washington Post.
So I'll have...
I'll have them send that to you.
Elizabeth Calamari.
Oh, I know.
And just call her and she'll send it right away.
Great.
Okay.
Tell her we spoke.
Or I can do that later.
So, you take a long time to write books.
I mean, you're a very painstaking author, aren't you?
I read this book.
Yeah.
And this book was, I brought the hardcover for you to inscribe.
That's why I'm here.
It was, it was,
It was actually started before the Northern Lights.
Tell me about that.
Well, I started it, and I got the outline of it, but it just wasn't ready to be written.
Just check in.
It sounds enigmatic, but I just got 70 or 80 pages into it and realized I wasn't ready to write this story yet.
It just wasn't well met with
my imagination of what the dimensions of this story were going to be.
So I set it aside, wrote The Northern Lights.
Which was a wonderful novel, coming-of-age novel.
Coming-of-age novel, and then I left it, and life intervened.
I had a child who moved a lot, wrote a book of stories, and did a lot of traveling.
This was still back there.
Absolutely, and I was keeping notebooks the whole time.
between 1985 and 1992.
What was there about this that was intimidating?
Was it stylistic, thematic?
It wasn't intimidation as much as a conviction that I just felt a sense of something was mitigating, either emotionally or stylistically.
It just didn't ring true.
And when I came back to it,
I had come back from a trip to Newfoundland, a short trip, about 10 days.
And when I came back, I said, all right, now I can write this.
I don't know what it was.
I think it was just realizing how spare I wanted it to be.
The early draft was more, the language seemed too embroidered.
And I just wanted to cut back and cut back and cut back.
So the character was fine.
The character was fine.
The original draft was more or less a fictional biography of Margaret Handel from birth to old age.
It was not told from her point of view.
It was a third-person narration.
And then when I got done with that draft, I said, this is...
This is good material, but it's not a story.
And I just had never felt that fiction was predominantly to impart information, but to tell a good story.
And so I started it over.
And my hope was that when Margaret wasn't present, quite literally present on the page, that a reader like the character Fabian would wonder what she was doing.
So I knew I wanted to feature her and have her as the center.
What do you think enabled you to make that leap, that imaginative leap?
To come back to it?
What gave you the story?
Well, initially, I was researching, working for a film company in Canada, an independent documentary film company.
And they had put me up in a little town called Heart's Desire.
And I was researching...
graveyards.
Graveyards are these great entrees into a community.
The names and the choreographing of families in the graveyard and so on and so forth.
While I was there, I was put up in a small Anglican church.
There was a watercolor of an ibis in the room.
It was rather a monastic setting.
I started to really look at this watercolor, and I thought, this is more than technically competent.
This is really quite a lovely piece of work.
There was no name on it, but there was just the date, 1911.
I thought to myself, what must it have been like to have this talent at this particular time, in this particular place?
How could he be embraced by the world?
Did he or she send paintings out?
Was it a local?
Was this the only painting?
Was the person a professional, as you say?
Didn't know anything.
Was this one of those epiphanous moments?
No, it wasn't epiphanous.
It was over a three-week period where I began to realize that I loved this painting.
And I'd always loved bird art.
Oh, I heard, I read stuff like that.
Edward Lear was someone I loved.
You know the brand new biography of him that just came in?
Really?
Yeah, give me your address at some point and I'll send you the... Really, because Vivian Noakes did... Just came in.
Oh, fantastic, I can't wait.
Just came in.
Scribner's, Scribner's.
Right, because of course here he's known mainly as a limerist, but in Europe he's one of the great bird artists.
In fact, we're going to go to London in three weeks and I'm going to...
get to go to the museum and see some Edward Lears.
Meeting Peter Matheson over there.
Are you crazy about birds?
Because when my dad asked me about the bird collection at the University of Kansas that was acquired by this
Oh, God, I want to hear better.
It's not that I'm crazy about birds.
I like to go out into the areas.
I like the remoteness of it.
It's one of the great collections in the world.
I have to get there.
He was put in a mental hospital by his mother back in the 1940s because of fear he was depleting the family fortune on his collection.
Apparently, at that time, you could commit a person who said he was mentally ill but not insane.
I used to spend far too much money on bird art, on rare monographs.
And I got very, very involved and finally sold a lot of it.
I have a friend who were on the same board together.
He's a professor of class.
He's an obsessed grid.
I should put you in touch with him.
I'd love it.
Bob Bradley, he's got a collection.
Where does he live?
Out in Worcester.
Oh, I could just drive down.
Yeah, I'll get him out headless.
I'll see it.
I trace him down.
And I start to swap stuff.
Willie, well, I don't have much to swap, but I just like to see it.
I mean, and what happened was that the film didn't work out.
But I started researching just a little bit, asking around, who did this painting?
It was 1911.
This was in the late, this was in sort of mid-1970s.
And I found some people that told me a little bit about there was a man.
He had in fact been brought up under the indictment of murdering a lighthouse keeper.
And I thought, okay, stop now, because the facts I was starting to find out began to trespass on what I imagined might have happened.
And I think fiction writers will have sentiments like this quite often, that you start to feel
more the journalism of it started to take over.
So I backed away from that.
Sometimes read Stephen Crane's journalism, a ship that sank and he survived, which is thrilling.
But then read The Open Boat.
It's two entirely different things.
There's the art and there's the journalism.
And I started to feel that happen.
So I left it for about a couple months.
And then I forgot now when it was, I guess 1991.
I just started sitting down and writing it.
So have you ever, in fact, gone back to find out precisely what happened?
Well, there's a strange thing that happened.
When I was in Seattle, a woman, a quite elderly woman, said, could I come to your hotel and have tea tomorrow?
And I said, I'm in Seattle now.
In Seattle.
What was you on the other side of the hotel?
I was on the book tour.
Yeah, but I mean, she's out here and... Yeah, and she was living with her great-niece or a niece.
Anyway, she brought three or four watercolor paintings to the hotel, and I knew that they were done by the same person.
What a great story.
It was her great-uncle.
And I was so grateful, Nick, that she...
that I didn't know this story before I wrote the book, because it would have just totally changed my whole perspective.
And she told me his fate.
She told me his fate.
It was peculiar to hear that when The Bird Artist ends, Fabian is 20 or 21, this woman finally sort of literally filled me in on a fictional character's life.
You're giving me so many problems.
How do I start this story?
I always feel I know the lead, but you're giving me at least three leads.
Go ahead.
So that was interesting.
And the same thing happened... Do you prefer the way... Fictionally, or the way it happened?
The way he ended up would have taken me on into his 70s.
And I had no interest in it.
But in terms of your conception of the characters?
No, I prefer, I'm happy with it.
Like last night at the reading, a lot of people were asking questions about how could someone who seems to be so passive about so many tumultuous events as Fabian actually murder a lighthouse keeper.
And I said, well, this was just the choreographing of a number of events plus fate.
at a certain moment in this guy's life, it built up to them.
So it didn't seem, you know, paradoxical even to me.
It just seemed part of his character.
But, no, I prefer it the way it is.
But, I mean, there were no second doubts.
I wish I'd known that.
No, none at all.
I was intrigued.
Did it bring a kind of personal closure to the thing for you, though, in a way?
Because I know for myself, being my roots are in journalism, and I always want to know what happened.
Privately, yes.
Literarily.
As an artist.
Completed work.
It was fine, just letting it go.
What a great story that is.
Care to tell me?
Her first name is Edna.
The woman named Edna.
Yeah, that's her first name.
And how old was she about?
My guess would be she's close to 90.
She's at least 85.
And she came to see you?
Yes.
So she'd heard about the book?
Her niece had given it to her.
And the niece told me she was quite upset.
And I thought that she was going to be upset with me.
But not at all.
We talked for three hours.
So she was not upset?
No, she was very clear about what a novel was and what the truth was.
She just hadn't been in Newfoundland in 50 years and wanted to talk about it.
That's great.
And it was more like just a nostalgic tour
You work, as I understand, seven days a week.
I try.
This last year it hasn't been so easy, but I try to work every day.
Do you try and write a draft?
Yeah, I do.
And then just keep reworking it and reworking it?
Like the novel I'm working on now, Nick, I'm writing a draft of it pretty much straight through.
It's called The Museum Garden.
It's set in Halifax.
Boy, Canada.
Yeah.
We'll talk about that.
We'll talk about it.
I'm utterly... But there's another book coming out before that at Farrar Strauss next fall.
Not this fall, but the Halloween year.
Series?
Novel?
No, it's a novella, and it's...
It's sort of a book for all ages.
It's a book that takes place during Hanukkah in Nova Scotia.
And the family calls themselves the Jewish community in this area.
It's called Reunion.
And it's something I've wanted to write for a long time, about an immigrant, rural Jewish family.
That's amazing.
I interviewed Patrick O'Brien last week in New York.
He's a wonderful writer.
People who think that he just writes these Bounding Mains, stories of the Bounding Mains, but I bring this up because he said the ocean for me is like Paris for Proust.
You can see where I'm going with this.
Why Canada?
Well, I mean, what is, I mean, obviously there's a scheme of isolation, and there's this landscape, I hate to hear the cliché plays, landscaping, imagination, and all that, but maybe just talk a little bit about it.
No, I mean, first of all, in The Bird Artist, I tried to develop the landscape the same way one would develop a character.
It interacted with people.
It's sort of ubiquitous.
I mean, the Newfoundland landscape is
despair and harsh and all those things.
And I have been long interested in characters who are already in somewhat remote places, but through their behavior and through fate become even more remote.
So if you have a character who's in a small town, like a lighthouse keeper, who is also reclusive, that kind of character really interests me.
The dimensions of a book, for me, are important.
I like to have it contained, but then push the edges of what that could be.
I'm not a writer, at least now.
I was writing a big, sprawling cathedral of a book.
I like to try to see what's possible within the confines of a sort of medium-sized novel.
And Canada, I mean, I spent a lot of time in Canada.
I've spent a lot of time in remote places in Canada.
But Canada, in some ways for me, and this may be laughable, is exotic.
Why?
Because if you go into certain areas in Canada, there's a different language spoken, say, in the native areas.
a different language spoken every 100 to 150 miles.
Linguistically, it's very eclectic.
If you telescope in on any one town or block or village, and this is true of anywhere, really, but for me, in Canada, full stories come out of it.
And, for instance, in the museum card, I talked rather inadvertently one day to a guy who had been
the guard in a small museum in Halifax.
Whammo!
There it was.
The whole thing unfolded.
This book is set right before World War II.
The story isn't just about him.
It's about a man and his nephew, who are the only two museum guards in the museum, who are in love with the same woman, unbeknownst to each other for a long time.
A painting arrives and all three of them, they all have a different obsessive response to the painting.
But I like that, where you start with a venue this wide and you move in tighter on it.
Almost like a sonnet.
That wonderful Shakespeare sonnet at this time of year when he goes from autumn to the day.
The embers in the fire.
I like that psychological compression.
The circle.
And I like to work with... I like writing about Canada.
I like being there.
I like thinking about it.
It's my fictional terrain.
Is there something O'Brien's isolation, he says, does bring out...
I mean, what is it about a ship at sea?
I spent three years on an aircraft carrier.
I have a sense of what this is about.
There are people every day that you see, whether you want to or not.
And I guess going way up here in this vast area really does challenge... And this new book set in Halifax isn't quite that, but here's what I think.
I think that it's really interesting as a fiction writer.
To go into a small place like that and you see two types, you see many types, but two of the types that you see are people that won't leave and people that have come from some other place in order to be just in that kind of place.
And sometimes when those two leave, there are interesting things that happen.
You know, what is someone leaving?
It's intriguing.
What is a place like this a reprieve from?
What are they looking for?
And on the opposite side of that, why are people willing to stay in a place like these small villages?
Vermont is a lot like that in some ways.
Oh, I would think so.
In some ways.
Although it's much more, generally more cosmopolitan.
You have quite a community up there.
Quite a community.
Wonderful writers.
There's
My wife, Jane Shore, is a book poet.
Dave Mamet is really close to us.
I mean, he's a really great friend.
Joyce Johnson, wonderful novels and memoirs, too.
Oh, she hasn't done something anything in quite a while, I see.
She's working on a novel.
Her last book was the book on the Steinberg case, Lisa Steinberg.
Oh, right.
So that's actually more recent than I realized.
Yeah.
Catherine Davis, a good fiction writer.
Ellen Voigt.
Louise Gluck.
They're all neighbors and friends.
So there's a kind of... Ed Coren, the cartoonist, is there.
We have a nice community of people.
Now you're up here how long?
We've been up for the last year.
We'll be gone next year and then back up for 18 months.
So we're spending as much time as we can.
And we're hoping to, I mean, as soon as possible, move here permanently.
Do you enjoy teaching?
Without sounding coy, I think for me, it's the next best thing to not teach.
I mean, it's good to be able to talk about what you love with students.
I'm in an MFA program.
But in all honesty,
I came to teaching full-time rather late.
I was 38.
I have never been able to shake a fundamental ambivalence about teaching.
Not about the validity of it, but just my role in it.
I'm cutting down on it.
Do you feel that you're being pulled away from what you would much rather be doing than just writing?
I think teaching is, I think there's only so many things you can do full-time.
And teaching, even if you're teaching a little bit, seems to be full-time.
And I think it, for me, and I can't speak for anyone else, it's an adversarial situation.
You write very—you don't mind our jumping around.
Not at all.
Anything.
And, you know, forgive me if we don't get into the book itself.
That's my job.
You can do that.
Yeah.
But it is, however, interesting that you do pick specific times, really.
I mean, you took 1911.
There was a circumstance that directed that.
Now, the work in progress is just before World War II.
You really do evoke time.
There's a reason for that, too.
because the painting that arrives is called A Jewess on a Street in Amsterdam.
And the female protagonist is a young woman who is the caretaker of the very small Jewish cemetery in Halifax.
And at the end of this new novel, she...
more or less has become the woman in the painting and goes into Europe, just as everyone's fleeing Europe.
We'll be in Amsterdam in three weeks.
So the time setting of these novels is not arbitrary.
But it is interesting, however, that you're not intimidated by evoking periods that you have no possible way of
knowing anything about it on a first-hand basis.
No, I'm more comfortable with it.
I don't know that I wrote a couple stories about it in the present, but I'm not that comfortable with contemporary.
And also, I don't think I could write psychologically sophisticated enough stuff in the present right now.
But I'm getting closer, Nick.
I'm moving up.
Is this an attempt, or are you just more comfortable doing it?
I'm just more comfortable.
I'm more intrigued by it.
Do you believe that human nature is a constant in any case, that you can move around from time to time?
To some extent.
I think that it's a fiction writer's job, almost, to argue that.
I mean, I think it's good to—I mean, I wouldn't strive for universals on any level.
I would just like to just—I mean, with a bird artist, I tried very, very consciously
not to impose any contemporary psychologizing on these characters, but sort of let faith move them in whatever directions they were going.
Are you familiar, and this is totally irrelevant, but are you familiar at all of the Senior Baxter movies?
Have you ever seen Senior Baxter?
No, no, I haven't.
She was a very... But this would tell me that.
Now, let's start again.
How are you feeling now about...
literacy, the state of the art.
You know, Sven Burkert's book just came out about the Gutenberg.
Yeah.
I mean, you're a person who has feelings about this because I mindfully have targeted cities.
I just throw darts and say, gee, I think I'll try Eugene, Oregon.
I think I'll try Kingsville, Florida.
I look and see what books are sold and what people are interested in.
And where they are interested in
discussing things like this.
And it's amazing the letters I'm getting from the readers.
I did a piece on this Norwegian guy, Jostin Gardner, Sophie's World.
It's a novel about the... I've seen it, yeah.
And I said to myself, Jesus, this is going to bore people silly.
They're not even going to use it.
Everywhere that I sent it, they don't know where to use this story.
They don't want it.
And the reaction to it...
My paper and Allen phone, The Morning Call, which takes me a couple times a month.
He gave it a big point.
You know what I'm saying?
My sense is that this is the kind of book that people wouldn't have been interested in.
It would bore them, but it didn't at all.
No, I think it is.
It's just entirely very gratifying.
You can't predict.
It's hard to predict.
So, you know, my answer is there are readers out there, thank God.
Bill Roth came to it.
My wife schooled George Washington, and he said, there's 50,000 readers.
That's right.
I put that figure.
Yeah.
I mean, he meant, and when asked what he meant, he said, people who read books, who, after dinner, don't turn on the television, but sit down and read.
Yeah, but you know why he says that?
He's angry.
Because his sales have been going down, down, down.
Did the, uh, somebody told me, Operation Shiloh told me this?
Yeah, he told me this.
How would it be?
Harold Green told me that he gave me that same quote from Mark.
He's very friendly with Philip Rock.
And I think that the life is a wonderful life.
And his stuff only gets better as far as I'm concerned.
No question.
I thought the counter life was amazing.
And he has every reason to be disturbed.
What do I have to do to get readers?
He's a serious writer, a very serious writer.
He's really wonderful.
It was Bloom that told me that.
He's not funny.
One of the greats.
Now that book I did.
Which is precisely this subject.
Shylock?
No, no.
Harold Bloom's book on the Western.
Oh, right, right.
Everywhere I go, I took it.
I enjoyed it.
I gave a good claim where he's talking about this declining literacy and all this other stuff.
Not just literacy, but this rather sad trend.
I don't know, in my child, you know, Emma's... Imagine putting Shakespeare in the same box with, because it's poetically correct, you know, you only do two or three plays.
Right.
And not to mention any names or any other... No, no, no, I... Alice Walker should be taught in the same level with, because for any number of reasons, it's appropriate to be teaching Alice Walker right now.
I love Bloom's Rages and Rants.
I love them.
I think it's great.
We have the same agent, by the way.
Agree or disagree, it's good to have the catalyst.
He reads so brilliantly when he focuses on his literary courses.
I've known people who've had him as a professor.
I want to ask him questions, because I really read footnotes, and I love the back-of-the-book stuff.
And I would say, now, why are you doing two different translations of Sophocles here?
I mean, is this just average?
And he'd give you a reason.
Yeah.
I mean, why he liked the Antigone better than he liked the... You know what I'm saying?
Not a man without opinions.
You know what I mean?
Right.
It wasn't fluff.
I mean, he didn't just pad this thing.
Now, what's your time, Dad?
What's your time?
I'm fine.
I'm great.
Okay.
You don't mind jumping around?
Not at all.
And, of course, remember the radio as a metaphor and...
Again, you had to pick a certain time.
Yeah.
And also, I noticed that it wasn't until the end of The Bird Artist that I'd realized I'd done something.
You know, people think that writers are so in control and so conscious of all their narrative strategies.
Well, sometimes you are.
But, for instance, at the end of The Bird Artist, when Isaac Sprague, The Bird Artist,
who Fabian has been corresponding with, shows up.
A somewhat analogous thing happened at the end of the Northern Lights when a radio announcer that this kid in the far north had been listening to, he runs into him in Toronto.
And so I suppose that a lot of what I'm interested in, especially in these small villages,
are what happens when something from the outside comes in, how it stirs things up, or how the threat of another place might act on someone's life individually, or longing or desire to be out in the larger world.
Those things intrigue me, and I guess I'll continue to write about them.
Do you ever think about writing a big book?
The novels that I have outlined, Nick, are not what I would call big books on the level of, say... Well, on the level of, say, I'm reading now and working with... That sounds too presumptuous, but working with the...
on this second, third volume of his Killing Mr. Watson trilogy.
Oh, interesting.
And this is enormous.
And what's your undertaking?
I don't want to feature myself in it, but we've known each other a long time.
And I'm simply, when I was out there, we were doing this
the longest Paris Review interview in the history of Paris Review.
I've now got 22 hours of tapes.
And we're old friends, and we're going to go up to Canada together next summer.
You're interviewing him for Paris Review?
Yeah, yeah.
About five years ago, he came to Washington, and he said, Plimpton's been after me, you know, and I don't want to do it.
And I said, so don't do it.
He said, I'm going to do it.
And then there was silence in the car, and he looked at me, and we both burst into laughter.
I said, he said, but we can't do it the normal way.
You know, we're meeting here, and we're meeting there, and we're meeting out in Long Island.
I think writing the prefatory remarks of it has had to be... It's going to be a long book.
It's going to be book length.
And the second volume is now, I think, 11 or 1,200 pages that I have.
I'm reading it, and we're discussing where to cut, what to do, what is it, because he's been involved with it for 17 years.
The third volume, which is a first-person narration from Edgar Watson's point of view, is complete as far as I'm concerned.
In other words, I've been seeing the sort of symphonic dimensions of this kind of book.
I'm just sort of vaguely intrigued at the possibility.
But for me, I know that the next couple of novels I write are not going to be that.
They're going to be more or less around the 250 or 300 pages long.
It just seems how I work, most comfortably.
I did an interview with Nadine Gordimer here in Cambridge last fall.
What's he doing with that?
Yeah.
Because she's very, very prolific.
She's written tons of stuff.
She maintained that everything she writes, as she said, it's almost like going into a room and looking at a sculpture.
And you walk around and you see it from a different angle.
She looks at the body of her work as a sculpture.
And that every book is kind of a look at the core or whatever from a different angle.
And, of course, it's a corpus, in other words.
And I wonder if you feel the same way.
I do.
I mean, I wouldn't say it quite as articulately as that.
I don't know if I paraphrase it articulately.
I think it's more that I really do see, well, I think this new book and the one after that
as not thematically a quartet, but in terms of my interest in these kinds of situations in Canada, I see that as sort of a more succinctly defined corpus of work.
So geographically and all that, I think I find strong connections, and I would agree that sort of approaching
certain basic themes from different angles.
And what are they in your mind?
Again, how history and faith imposes itself on people in small communities.
I think, to some extent, especially in this new book, it's a, I hope,
generous and I think to some extent extreme take on unrequited love on one level what passion can do to people when their life is otherwise limited in some way I guess some of those things I just keep coming back to one of my favorite writers is Tanizaki
Japanese writer, Junichiro Tanizaki.
He's a very eccentric writer.
He, in a way, not thematically, but sort of emotionally, is kind of a mentor, if you will.
He's interested in day-to-day people living day-to-day lives, and somehow fate thrusts them into acting differently and
even eccentrically.
They hardly recognize themselves.
I like those moments.
You certainly will find me suggesting that I'm publishing my first book.
I'll be 52.
So you started late in life.
You were about 35 or something like that.
I was 38 when the Northern Lights came out.
But you might just
You were doing other things with your life, and I don't think you just decided, gee, I think it's time to be a writer.
No, I had tried, I mean, in terms of fiction, Nick, I had tried, I had written a couple of short novels and shown them to a couple people.
And I was writing natural history, and I was writing, doing a lot of translation work and so forth.
I think it was really meeting my wife, who had been a poet for many, many years, and was teaching at the time at Topps.
You met her here, right?
I met her here.
Philip Levine introduced us, and Phil and Fran were old friends, and we got together, and they introduced us on Thanksgiving.
A poet of no small accomplishment.
No, wonderful man.
basically said, you know, you just don't seem to be doing what you really want to do.
And I said, well, you know, I've been trying to write fiction.
And she said, well, then cut away everything else and just do it.
And, you know, we were living together at that time.
And I'd set aside The Bird Artist as it was in that form and started writing The Northern Lights.
And so I felt it was a natural time for me to start writing fiction.
I felt it was then sort of like stop talking about it and do it.
Mm-hmm.
And Jane was central to all that.
So I know it does, especially compared to how young people are today with publishing, it seems late, but it doesn't seem late to me.
And also, most of my favorite writers wrote, really began writing late, whatever that means, whatever late means.
There are things you can't do at a certain age, and I firmly believe that.
It's very hard for me to take anything seriously by fiction by anybody who's in the middle.
They were only 20s.
It does happen.
It does happen, but I don't, whether it's a bias or not, I seem to be attracted
not to that.
I don't mean to think it's just experience or having a little longer.
I think it's just knowing more and feeling.
Also, I mean, coming into it and what I did, I felt totally unintimidated.
I knew I wasn't going to compromise.
I mean, that's not what it was about.
I wasn't trying to please anybody.
I thought, write what only you can write and then take your chances.
And so I
I didn't feel I was trying to be part of a network or part of anything.
I didn't come out of writing programs or a literary background.
I didn't have a literary family.
I was on my own with it, and I thought, well, c'est la vie.
And that's what it was.
Richard Eater has... It's...
It's not only because he's been generous toward me, but he's been instructive.
And there's not a lot of people who can say that about him.
In what respect now?
Individually?
Are you in his writing?
I mean in the sense that he has said things, he has pointed out things in reviews of my books.
And I would say most especially the short stories.
which he liked a lot more than I do.
But that aside, he pointed out certain things just in the phrasings, which were just instructional to me.
I mean, quite literally instructional.
There are certain things that I will not do now.
And the book
And I think writers are stubborn and they're loathe to, you know, they're opinionated.
You know, Flannery O'Connor said that every sentence is an opinion.
It's true.
You know, but he has been so encouraging.
And especially with the bird artist.
I mean, his review of that was just so helpful.
Yeah.
You were with Summit originally, which was with Soberman, I guess.
Did you know a fellow by the name of Ted Wiesner who was with Soberman?
I don't know him personally, but I know his work very well.
I did a piece.
I'm also going to publish his weekly interviews now.
Are you?
And I did a piece on him for Pete Evans in a couple months ago.
What a nice, nice book.
I haven't read the new novel, but I'll tell you a novel that I truly, truly know.
That I like, too.
The True Detective.
Scared the hell out of me.
But I should tell you, the story of how that came to me is quite a story.
It is.
Because it started out in non-fiction.
And you never got the killer.
It was an amazing book.
It really shook me.
I found it on the, sort of, the emotional import it had for me was on, was commensurate to a solutioner's song.
It made me, it just made me play.
Some books make you feel the world is a little predatory.
They always have publicists.
I think that's good.
I can ask you, would you inscribe these?
Sure.
Andrew, there isn't anything we've missed.
If you want, we could talk on the phone.